Brazil is the largest country in South America,
from the Amazon rainforest to rich farmland
and a beautiful coastline. Paraguay borders Brazil
and is the eighth largest country in South America.
Its diverse geography includes major rivers, vast plains
and fertile farmland.
We wondered how the Bethel families in those countries
were doing after some two-and-a-half years of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Brother Dalinger and I, along with our wives,
Lordis and Angela, began our journey from Warwick Bethel
with a flight to São Paulo, Brazil.
But, after the recent presidential election,
large protests in São Paulo were blocking key roads,
including the road from the airport to the branch office.
But Jehovah provided an unexpected solution.
Thanks to the generosity of a witness family,
we were transported from the airport in record time.
We had no problem finding a parking space on the Bethel Soccer Field.
The branch is located in a rural area
and serves as a home to some 1200 volunteers.
During our visit, the entire Bethel family enjoyed morning worship
and breakfast in the dining room.
Dear Maos, bongea.
Are you excited to be here for the branch visit?
We are too.
One of the first stops on our tour was the large printer.
In harmony with the governing body's desire to provide printed material,
Brazil produced publications in 65 languages last year.
Brazil also serves as a warehousing branch.
What is that?
It means Brazil can print, stock, and ship literature
directly to individual congregations in Paraguay, Argentina,
Uruguay, Bolivia, Chile, and Peru.
Brazil also ships publications to branches in Colombia,
Mexico, the United States, South Africa, Germany, and Japan.
In addition, there are ten remote translation offices
that translate our publications into other languages spoken in Brazil.
Brazil Bethel has two museums.
One is devoted to the history of Bible translation,
and the other shows the history of Jehovah's people in Brazil.
The Brazil branch also provides the art department in Patterson
with photos and artwork for our publications.
Perhaps you recognize some of these scenes.
Under the oversight of audio video services at headquarters,
Brazil has a regional video team.
Ready, set, action.
With all of this activity and over 900,000 publishers to support,
the branch is being renovated and modernized.
Many commuter Bethelites are sharing in this project,
and as you can see, all are happy to help.
Another highlight of our visit was the special dinner
with the Bethel family, which featured the Bethel chorus,
traditional dancing,
and some excellent field service experiences.
Naturally, we couldn't wait to see for ourselves
what field service was like.
And sure enough, we found that both in the rural areas and in the city,
people were polite, easy to talk with, and receptive to the Kingdom message.
We couldn't help but think that many more may yet come into Jehovah's organization
in this large country.
At the assembly hall on the branch property,
we were able to enjoy a special program with the Bethel family
and nearby congregations, over 2000 attended.
After our final meal with the Bethel family,
it was hard to hold back the tears as we set our farewells.
But just before our departure, we heard of more road blockages.
Would we be able to get to São Paulo in time for our flight?
Absolutely.
Upon our arrival in Paraguay Bethel,
we were surprised and overwhelmed.
What a welcome.
The Paraguay branch is located just outside the capital city of Assunce Young.
Just a block down the street, a beautiful new assembly hall
and school for Kingdom evangelizers' facility were nearing completion.
The enthusiasm of the construction volunteers was contagious.
Just a few weeks after our visit,
the assembly hall and school facility were completed.
There are about 100 members in the Paraguay Bethel family,
which cares for the 11,000 publishers in the country.
The largest department at the branch is translation.
These dear brothers and sisters devote much effort
to translate our publications and our website into the Guadani language.
This is proved to be a blessing for honest-hearted ones
throughout the country.
For example, we learned of a Guadani speaking woman named Angelina.
During the pandemic, Angelina studied the Bible by cell phone.
But because she lives in a remote location, electricity is unreliable.
But that did not deter Angelina.
For her Bible study, Angelina walked four kilometers
or two and a half miles round trip to charge her cell phone.
As she progressed, she walked that distance more often
than she could connect to our meetings.
Was it worth the effort?
Today, Angelina is now baptized
and her husband is studying the Bible.
We were curious about what we would find in the ministry.
In one city park, virtually everyone we spoke with
was polite, humble, and willing to talk.
The next day, despite an outbreak of COVID-19,
we enjoyed a special meeting that was transmitted
to all congregations throughout the country.
The program featured experiences that highlighted the progress of the preaching work.
No doubt, many more will respond to the Kingdom message in Paraguay.
For the special meal with the Bethel family,
we enjoyed delicious food along with traditional dancing and singing.
We also enjoyed hearing nice experiences of Bethelites
who witnessed by letter and telephone during the pandemic.
Yes, as was true of Brazil,
the Paraguay Bethel family is united and joyful.
Many in the Bethel family said,
we did not realize how much we needed this visit.
Truly, these visits are evidence of the governing body's love
and caring for our Bethel family's worldwide.
As you can imagine, it was hard to tear ourselves away
from our dear brothers and sisters,
but we rejoiced in seeing how Jehovah has so lovingly cared
for them during the past few years.
We will remember them fondly.
Both Bethel families send their warm love to the governing body.